hey y'all chef irons got here back again
with the next step of the how to smoke a
bring how to smoke a chicken rather on
the break and electric smoker now I've
got my Brinkman electric smoker right
here it's a temp it's about 225 you can
see on the inside there that I have my
water pen that I prepared in a previous
video if you haven't watched that check
it out and I'm going to place this
chicken which is about a three and a
half pound chicken on the bottom rack in
my Bremen now also have some drum ease
and actually I can put those on the top
rack or I can put them on top of the
water pan and I think I have room there
so just to demonstrate the way this
Brinkmann works and this is something
that a lot of people have asked me about
you got two layers so depending upon how
much meat you're smoking you can put it
all on one layer or you can put it on
two now today I'm going to put the drum
use on the top so I've got that on the
bottom there put the drum B's on the top
this is going to smoke it around to 20
to 25 Fahrenheit so now let me proceed
to the next step and I'm going to put my
mop that I prepared previously on this
chicken okay so what I'm going to do now
this is the mop that I created in a
previous video I'm just going to rub it
on the brush it on the chicken I've
already done the bottom the bottom whole
chicken I'm doing these drum ease here
now and then this will just kind of help
to get get everything good and juicy
keep it moist
and then the next step I'm going to
we're going to add my temperature probe
and I have my temperature probe right
here for the meat I'm going to stick it
in the middle of the chicken this way I
can monitor how how things are smoking
you know
let's make sure it's in the middle part
of the chicken which it is and then in
addition to that what I'm going to do is
install an ambient thermometer so I can
monitor the ambient temperature that's
the temperature inside the smoker why
everything smokes so that's how to meat
thermometer that's a meat thermometer
that's the ambient longer now our next
step we're going to just put the lid on
something I wanted to point out that I
pointed out in previous videos there's a
there supposed to be a gap there this
this smoker doesn't have a chimney on
the top it just let's move it a smoke
out around the sides so we're going to
get our wood chips
and these are the wood chips that I have
been soaking actually they've soaked for
longer than a half hour I would
definitely recommend us a half hour
soaking water you can check out my other
video where I demonstrate this smoker
box and you can see the holes on the
bottom serve a purpose they let the
water drain out of the wood chips what
you want to do with this just get a good
good layer of wood chips these are
mesquite I think mesquite goes best for
chicken that's just my opinion
thicker is good too but I really like
mesquite with chicken put these in there
make sure I don't waste any of that wood
and then just kind of level this out so
let's you don't have to fill the smoker
box all the way to the top just kind of
keep it level now I'm going to put the
lid on the smoker box
and that just when you throw it in your
smoker that prevents it from from
getting wood chips all over the all over
the lava rocks not that that would be a
problem but it just creates a mess to
clean up
so you open your door on your Brinkman
right there and you can see in the
inside the lava rocks on the bottom on
top of the heating element I'm just
going to gently place this in there
making sure I get it in there and that's
my first smoker box for this since I'm
smoking probably refer on for hours I'm
going to add another smoker box later on
as this one runs out but that's how to
that's how to smoke chicken on the
Brinkman electric smoker and just to
kind of recap what we're smoking today
we're smoking a whole chicken on the
lower level of the Brinkman electric
smoker and then on the top we've got
five drumsticks and obviously underneath
we have our water pan with with onion in
it to add some aromatic qualities to the
meat while it smokes so it ought to be
delicious stay tuned subscribe if you
haven't already youtube.com forward
slash Irish guy and check out all my
other barbecue smoking videos and I've
got a lot more coming soon as well y'all
have a good day